The Joe Rogan experience.
Do you think that the algorithms are designed to do this,
or do you think that it's just a function of human nature that we tend
to gravitate towards things that outrage us and then
huddle up together in echo chambers that this is just a natural tribal
behavior.
And then what the algorithms do is essentially just highlight
what we're really interested in.
They magnified in a feedback loop, right.
So you're right to say that humans do have these traits.
Um, you know, and I, I haven't designed the algorithms,
but I've also talked to people who have, and you know, a lot of them,
they don't even understand how they work at a certain point.
Like they're off to the races. Have you seen the social dilemma?
Yeah. Yeah. W what'd you think about that? It's great.
It's great. Yeah. Yeah. Um, to.
Uh, the conclusions that they draw. Oh.
Certainly. I mean, I, yeah,
I made a film about eight years ago called terms and conditions may apply,
you know, and that, that came out right before the Edward Snowden revelations,
you know, and when it came out, peop the initial response was like, oh,
this is maybe conspiratorial.
Surely the government doesn't have this much insight into our
behavior and, and, you know, an access to, um,
to our devices and our personal information.
And then this known revelations came out and then it was like, oh, well,
maybe the series didn't go far enough. Um, you know,
and I, uh, and, and back then we had talked about the idea of how,
how is technology influencing us? How is it changing us, manipulating us?
And it didn't feel like that was the biggest story at the time.
And this question of privacy and how our rights are being eroded through
these agreements that nobody ever really reads. And you could find all,
all kinds of, uh, juicy tidbits, uh,
hidden in there in terms of what the companies were actually doing and kind of
revealing this unholy collusion between the government and big tech,
um, you know, but, uh, it, at the time people would often say, well,
what's the cost, you know, what's the big deal.
If they're mining my personal data to serve me with ads.
And I'd say that the environment we find ourselves in now is the
cost.
Do you do anything to personally protect your data? Do you like use duck,
duck go for searches and things along those lines, you've brave as a browser.
Like, do you do that stuff?
All that. Yeah. Yeah. You signal VPNs, VPNs. I mean, I,
I do my best, you know,
if a government actor really wants to get at ya, they're going to be able to,
I mean, you saw the NSO ClickList spyware story, right? I mean,
if,
if there's a zero day that allows you to get access to
a microphone and everything that someone's doing on their phone,
without them even having to click on link, you know, it's game over it,
of course governments will abuse that.
And probably are right now. Probably.
Are right now. Yeah. We're sort of we're phones at.
Yeah. It's um,
it's interesting because you would think that there'd be a market for a
platform that becomes Bulletproof and there have bins, um,
you know, Linux-based, uh, cell phone operating system phones that they sell.
Like they buy a phone, you get a Google phone,
they de Google it and put different software on it and stuff.
But I'm not sure if that's like,
if you're deluding yourself into believing that you're actually protected with
that stuff where you're actually are protected. Right.
I would think they could work around all those things,
especially something that's, I mean, it's essentially like open source, right?
Like, like if it's a Linux-based operating system,
there's some super geniuses out there.
I'm sure they're going to be able to hack into that.
Yeah. I mean, I think with stuff like signal, you're just,
you're just protecting yourself as best you can, right?
You use something that's, that's end to end encrypted.
You're doing better than 99% of people who are out there.
You're making somebody really have to work to get access to your tier two your
stuff. And if you're using a VPN and you're using duck, duck go, then you're,
you're minimizing your digital footprint. And you're not,
as you're not worth as much of these companies, they're not able to, to,
uh, manipulate you, I guess, in the same way through these algos.
But let me ask you this. I mean, would you,
what would you do about the algorithm problem? Right,
because on the one hand algorithms are necessary for something like a search
engine. On the other hand, um, you know, they are,
they drive the most sensational content things like Q Anon, um,
and, uh,
and I think have largely facilitated the situation we find ourselves in. Now.
Watch the entire episode for free only on Spotify.